Is taking OMSCS NLP worth it if I already took Andrew Ng's NLP course on coursera?
I took Andrew Ng's NLP course on coursera a year or two ago, it covered a lot of stuff but the assignments weren't really a challenge, just plugging stuff in jupyter notebooks. I'd imagine that OMSCS NLP would have more challenging assignments and cover stuff in more detail, but maybe there'd be significant overlap. It probably would be good to take the class to review the concepts at least. I'm wondering if anyone else has taken both courses and can compare.
furrzpetstore
I took NLP and yes it is a good course. I like the homework and how the course is organized.
IGN_WinGod
Taking it right now, it's seriously the best course I've taken out of 8. II specialization.
AngeFreshTech
what list of courses did you take ?
IGN_WinGod
Have taken game AI course and that was definitely #2, VGD as #3. The rest were not that good, KBAI, AI, HCI as main specializations.
eko-wibowo
What's about it that make it the best? I've seen other people in this subreddit saying it's too easy and not that useful. What are your thoughts ?
IGN_WinGod
For me it's b/c I do RL for work, I can now build more connections to how nlp and RL be paired. Just a broader understanding.
Decent-Bed7651
Hey, u mind sharing the syllabus? It’s not available on the public course link!
flycrg
It depends. What is your goal of the course? To get credit towards graduating or learn new things? If its to get an easy credit then absolutely. If its to learn new things that weren't covered in Ng's course, you may want to look elsewhere.
Personally I fell into the first group and it was an easy A.
Odd-Cup8261
Mostly learn new things but get an easy credit would be nice too.
ChipsAhoy21
I wouldn’t. I’m in it now and it’s all super high level. I think you would get more out of binge watching the stats quest videos in the DL channel on youtube.
IGN_WinGod
I think if you pair then together it's actually quite nice. I have the dl book and it's really good for low level and nlp lectures for higher level.
B4bane
Was able to directly apply things I learned from this course to my job. 100% recommend.
windhunter89
not worth it, take DL and learn more, NLP is part of DL course as well. You wont miss much.
eko-wibowo
Can you elaborate on this? Which parts are overlapping? Which parts are you missing by skipping NLP?
Here's the recent DL syllabus I'm looking at https://omscs.gatech.edu/sites/default/files/documents/2024/Syllabi-CS 7643 2024-1.pdf
spacextheclockmaster
No, not worth it. Take DL instead.